---
outline: deep
---

# Network interface specific options

## Configure an ethernet port
Create a section named `port2` for the network device `lan2`   
Do not put any `.` in the section name.
```
config net port2
  option linux_name 'eth0.2'
  ...
```

Available protocols: `apbb, batadv, babeld, bgp, bmx7, client, lan, manual, olsr, olsr2, olsr6, static, wan`

::: tip manual
If you use the protocol `manual` do not specify other protocols, may result in an unpredictable behavior/configuration (likely you loose connection to the node)
:::

## Examples
### WAN port
Configure a network ethernet port as WAN using the protocol `wan` or `static`.

LibreMesh in the default flavor configure a DHCPv4 client in the default openwrt WAN interface.
The section `lm_hwd_openwrt_wan` gets created in `lime-autogen` by `lime-hwd-openwrt-wan` package in case 
an ethernet WAN port is detected.

::: tip
Modify `lm_hwd_openwrt_wan` to assign to the WAN network interface a different ethernet network device 
like a lan port, and/or to set a static ip.    
Doing so, rather than disabling it, ensure that Babeld shares the default route from this interface 
via the package `babeld-auto-gw-mode`.
:::

#### Modify `lm_hwd_openwrt_wan`
Configure the ethernet port eth1.5 as WAN with static ipv4 and ipv6 addresses
```
config net lm_hwd_openwrt_wan
    option autogenerated 'false'
    option linux_name 'eth1.5'
#   list protocols 'wan'
    list protocols 'static'
    option static_ipv4 '192.168.1.2/24'
    option static_gateway_ipv4 '192.168.1.1'
    option static_ipv6 '2a00:1508:0a00::1234/64'
    option static_gateway_ipv6 'fe80::1'
```

- `autogenerated 'false'` - This tells lime-hwd-openwrt-wan to not destroy and rewrite this section
- `linux_name 'eth1.5'` - Assign to the WAN network interface a different ethernet network device.
- `protocols 'wan'` - Use 'wan' instead of 'static' to get Internet connectivity via DHCP.    
  If a VLAN is needed on the WAN interface for connecting to the gateway, 
  it can be specified with `wan:ID`, like `wan:20` or `wan:20:8021q`


#### wan (DHCP Client)
Use `wan` protocol to get Internet connectivity via DHCP
```
config net lm_hwd_openwrt_wan
    option autogenerated 'false'

config net port1_wan
  option linux_name 'lan1'
  list protocols 'wan'
```
- `autogenerated 'false'` - Specify that the configuration of the WAN ethernet port has been manually edited, creating an empty configuration for it and practically disabling it

#### static (ipv4/ipv6)
Use `static` protocols and specify the router 'IPv4/subnet' and the gateway IPv4, and/or 'IPv6/subnet' and the gateway IPv6.
```
config net lm_hwd_openwrt_wan
    option autogenerated 'false'

config net port1_wan
  option linux_name 'lan1'
  list protocols 'static'
  option static_ipv4 '192.168.1.2/24'
  option static_gateway_ipv4 '192.168.1.1'
  option static_ipv6 '2a00:1508:0a00::1234/64'
  option static_gateway_ipv6 'fe80::1'
```
- `autogenerated 'false'` - Specify that the configuration of the WAN ethernet port has been manually edited, creating an empty configuration for it and practically disabling it


### LAN only port
Configure `lan1` for users to connect to, not for connection to other nodes.
```
config net port1
    option linux_name 'lan1'
    list protocols 'lan'
```

### Mesh only port
The protocol `batadv:%N1` needs to be specified if the other node is in the same mesh cloud i.e. same `ap_ssid`.
```
config net port1
    option linux_name 'lan1'
    list protocols 'batadv:%N1'
    list protocols 'babeld:17'
```
