# Saturday the 5th of April 2025 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 10:00 ART).

## People
Aryan, batata-coolab, gothos, Ilario, Javier, Purva, vgds, Cri, Gio

## Topics

* Updates on GSoC 2025
* Finalizing the 2024.1 release - 
* Testing grant 2025
* Opening a Mastodon account?
* Current errors on Lime-App with latest version https://github.com/libremesh/lime-app/issues/480
* Sharing info about monitoring
* APuP
* Dave Täht loss

## Updates on GSoC 2025

Aryan - Adding wifi support to qemu
Purva - Adding wifi support to qemu

Deadline for applications: 8th of April, in 2-3 days!!

How many "students" we can accept depends on Google and on Freifunk. Last year we got assigned 2 projects.
Original projects are welcome!

Official announcement of accepted project on the 8th of May.

Javier: Agustin applied for Simplify LibreMesh

Javier: an original idea could be to develop a small firmware image for old routers that can load the rest of the software from an USB key.

Gio: another GSoC idea: dinamic devices support in Netifd. Would be needed for many OpenWrt devices
Gio: another GSoC idea: WPA encryption for APuP

## Finalizing the 2024.1 release

Writing a text for the news page on the website and to be sent by email on the mailing list:
https://pad.codigosur.org/libremesh-2024.1-news

Ilario: Next weekend let's send the text to the mailing list and on the news section of the website.

https://repo.libremesh.org/selector/

## Testing grant 2025

The draft is here:
https://pad.exo.cat/pad/#/2/pad/edit/X27kEbYUhJiJ5twKIBVHHVlT/

Deadline for publication: 5th of May.

On OpenWrt 24 or trunk?

There is a new packages version in OpenWrt trunk.
Gothos: better to stay on OpenWrt 24.10 to go a bit slower.
The pull request Gothos wrote for APK packaging will work also on OpenWrt 24.
As soon as Gothos considers it ready we can merge it.

Javier will add the requirement to test also lime-app

## Opening a Mastodon account?

Ilario: we have a Peertube account but it works only
Javier: +1
Ilario: you can see and comment Peertube videos from Mastodon, they are federated
Gothos: +1
Cri: https://forum.openwrt.org/t/need-a-mastodon-social-media-account/146228/11

fosstodon.org
floss.social

Ilario: will send an email asking for which server to use

Content to publish:
Releases
Important pull requests that got merged
New features
Documentation
Media (pictures from BattleMesh talks, poster at Fossdem)

Gothos: also on the website: new page with link medias, link of articles, link of videos
Gothos will make the new page on the website

## Current errors on Lime-App with latest version https://github.com/libremesh/lime-app/issues/480 

Javier: Has anyone else experienced issues with lime-app?

Gothos: anyone can change the administrator password and it is not clear which menu entries are for admin only and which ones are for everyone.

Javier: let's add lime-app testing to the testing grant 2025
Javier will add this to the testing grant
Javier: I spoke with Selankon and they will fix the issues spotted by Javier

Ilario: after that is anyone going to continue developing lime-app?
Javier: don't know yet

Batata: do you people use the terminal or lime-app?

Ilario: personally not a user of LibreMesh, got used to do things via /etc/config/lime-node

Gothos: browsers were blocking the thisnode.info page also for the https certificate. For the monitoring we use Prometheus + Grafana. Managed by us as a small team of technicians, not much by the users.

Javier: personally not a user of LibreMesh, people I know use a very old version of LibreMesh.

## Sharing info about monitoring

Javier: https://grafana.altermundi.net/d/Jjp28jlMk/trafico-todos-los-nodos?orgId=3

Javier: Tipi. Degoogling is easier if done inside network communities. https://montelibre.net
https://github.com/runtipi/runtipi
Tipi makes easier to host services.
Maybe similar to Yunohost

Cri: Yunohost is good for non-technical people. But we just create the containers so that they are just the needed ones and we spare computational resources

Cri: https://mappe.antennine.org/en/
 
Cri: works from inside the networks without password, but requires password from the internet https://panorama.antennine.org/

Cri: useful checklist for troubleshooting https://antennine.noblogs.org/post/2020/09/30/piccola-mini-lista-in-caso-di-malfunzionamento/
 
Next version of lime-app will have a map with at least 3 layers: wifi, batman-adv, babeld.

Cri: https://sandstorm.org/

## APuP


Ilario: Gio developed an alternative to classic wifi mesh connection systems called APuP. It has already been accepted in OpenWrt. The implementation in LibreMesh is pending: 
https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/pull/1134

Javier: it is very easy to use

Ilario: is it available in OpenWrt 24.10?
Gio: checking...
Ilario: would be good to have APuP in the next LibreMesh release

Gio: some quirks with the speed negotiation. The driver does not even know that the connection is different from normal AP-sta.

Gothos: possible to have 802.11s and APuP up at the same time for easing the transition?
Gio: should be possible. Did not try. To use APuP, both nodes will have to understand APuP.

Ilario: how many AP interfaces will the user see?
Gio: AP interfaces will be created for each peer that gets detected
Gio: the user will just see the normal AP, not the APuP ones because they are all the same network. There is just one AP network.
Ilario: do the extra interfaces disappear when peer goes away?
Gio: yes, kernel will delete them after a timeout
Ilario: will you continue to work on it?
Gio: will support but hope that more people will develop. I started working on other routing things
Ilario: WPA encryption?
Gio: WPA can be set for the clients connection, but APuP peers will not use encryption. Encryption needs to be implemented. The work was to demonstrate the idea, mostly. Will help people who want to implement the WPA. It would be a good GSoC project.

## Dave Täht loss

Gio: Dave Täht passed away few days ago. Will send an email about this on the mailing list
