---
title: LibreMesh 2020.1 release
---

# 2020-12-15 - LibreMesh 2020.1 release

The LibreMesh team is happy to announce a new version of LibreMesh, 2020.1 "Expansive Emancipation".
Three years of work, 882 commits, 23 developers, tons of bug fixes and improvements!

This release is compatible with OpenWrt stable 19.07.5 and old-stable 18.06.9. For the time  source-only
release so you will need compile it yourself for the devices used by your community using the easy to
follow instructions in https://libremesh.org/development.html


### What's new in 2020.1 "Expansive Emancipation"

It is imposible to do a meaninful list of all the changes. A non complete list of the most relevant
developments:

* [LimeApp](https://github.com/libremesh/lime-app/): an app to for the maintenance and deploy of community networks targeted to non-technical
community members.
* A new community-oriented configuration system that facilitates collective maintenance of configurations.
* shared-state, a shared database for the network.
* first-boot-wizard, an optional helper to deploy and extend the network that it is well integrated with the LimeApp.
* [Pirania](https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/blob/master/packages/pirania/Readme.md), an optional boucher and captive portal solution for community networks

* Hundreds of fixes and code improvement.


### Contributors

This release has contributions from communities and individuals from all around the world. Testing, software development, documentation, community building. Thank you all!!

A list of the software developers that contributed to this release was easily gathered from the git history:
AngiieOG, Brad, Daniel Golle, FreifunkUFO, German Ferrero, Gioacchino Mazzurco, Gui Iribarren, Ilario Gelmetti,
Jess, Luandro, Marcos Gutierrez, Michael Jones, Mike Russell, Nicolás Pace, PatoGit, Pau, Paul Spooren, Pedro Mauro,
Santiago Piccinini, Vittorio Cuculo, hiure, radikalbjr, valo.
