# 2023-06-03 PROJECT MEETING

**People & list of topics**

Saturday the 3rd of June 2023 at 13:00 UTC (15:00 CEST, 9:00 ART).

Topics:
* Analysis of the implementation status of last meeting's decisions
* Next tech meeting dates
* sending stickers to communities or allowing communities to print stickers and pay them from the donations on the OpenCollective?
* check if communication channel is working and if is clear the decision making workflow (the method is not decided but the workflow yes-> dic 2021 ), write in website.
* write a roadmap of LibreMesh for the next 6month

    - release of lime 2020.3 (openwrt19)

    - release of lime 2023.1 (openwrt22)


## To do for next meetings

- check the design of the project after half and 1 year (dic 2021->june 2023)
- checking our web presence match with the design of the project
- update the list of "owners" and "members" on the Github organization "libremesh"
- fix translation from ...
- decide and planning where move the website (we said that github is temporary...)
- fix the list of older release, 
- test how publish next release,  (2023.1 release based on OpenWrt 22.03 is quite far from being ready)
- annuncing/documenting next release (2020.3 based on OpenWrt 19.07 would be ready to release, but we could release it as 2020.4 with an increased default "distance" parameter for the 5 GHz radios)
- update list of used hardware.. (e.g. adding PlasmaCloud PA1200, Xiaomi MiRouter 4A Gigabit Edition)

## Long list of topics by the previous meetings: decision making, etc... 
https://pad.codigosur.org/LibreMesh_meetup_dic_2021#L1438
- resume of the BattleMesh
- resume of the network installed at Calafou for the BattleMesh with the technical tricks included in its network-profile https://github.com/libremesh/network-profiles/tree/master/calafou
- list of issues observed during BattleMesh and traspassing this list to the LibreMesh issues list

*   test OpenWISP with LibreMesh (install both OpenWISP packages https://github.com/openwisp/openwrt-openwisp-monitoring/tree/0.1.0#install-pre-compiled-packages and https://openwisp.io/docs/user/configure-device.html#install-openwisp-config , figure out how to set up an OpenWISP server and set it up, maybe virtualized with Docker Compose)

*   analyze the poor performances of the mesh link (maybe due to VHT80 channel width? The routers see each other at -80 dBm that is too low for this very good line of sight)

*   get two outdoor routers (PlasmaCloud PA1200, Duy should have some) and flash them as the mesh link, check the speed and check if with different channels, channel width or other things it gets better

*   understand how BATMAN_V is getting the master interface (now it does not find it. It runs on a VLAN, but needs info from the original interface) and fix something so that it works in LibreMesh

*  (unrelated to Calafou) make a release of LibreMesh 2020.3, still based on old OpenWrt 19.07

*   implement Opportunistic Wireless Encryption easy setup in LibreMesh and use it in Calafou. Also, encrypt the mesh link

*   fix the super annoying Makefile of hostapd (wpad-*) in OpenWrt (see https://github.com/openwrt/openwrt/issues/8312 )

*   set up monitoring with prometheus (in case doing it with OpenWISP is too difficult)

*   double check the documentation from Aparcar on the usage of the ImageBuilder

*   update unit testing script to work with OpenWrt 22.03

*   understand what should we/odhcpd developers do for stopping using dnsmasq-dhcpv6 and start using odhcpd for DHCP on IPv6 as in OpenWrt. Someone (Aparcar? Marek?) said that in LibreMesh we are not using odhcpd because it cannot read the leases list from and external source (e.g. a file). Maybe Daniel Golle can implement that.

*   reboot the router once every week only if the internet connectivity is not present https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/1023

*   txt.file mentioned that there are two settings in OpenWrt that would be useful:1) for telling the clients to use a specific country code (e.g. if the router country code is set to ES, also the clients should use the same)2) for telling the clients which channels are in use in the current network (I hope it can increase the speed of the roaming switching)

*   Make sure that from the "events' network" clients cannot ping/reach hosts in "classic network" except the fiber router * Put LibreMesh and BattleMesh stickers on every router of the "events' network" * Label the ports with a marker writing on the router * Coordinate with Konejo for fixing the support of lime-app for OpenWrt 22.03  Please add anything you consider useful :) then we can take this list and use its items to create new tickets-issues on Github :) 

*   understand why eth1 (wan) in PlasmaCloud PA1200 router used as gateway gets added in br-lan, and this should not happen. Checking network.lua in lime-system. If we don't have time for fixing this, hardcode a fix.

*   understand why static IP configuration didn't work as expected. For the gateway LibreMesh node, at some point the dhcp client was not getting anything, so we tried with a static IP but did not do anything. What we added to /etc/config/lime-node is:

        config net usingLANasWAN
        option linux_name 'eth1'
        list protocols 'wan'
        list protocols 'static'
        option static_ipv4 '172.31.17.254/24'
        option static_gateway_ipv4 '172.31.17.1'
