---
title: LibreMesh Tecnical Meeting
---

# 2023-01-21 TECH MEETING

**People and List of topics**
Cri, Hiure, Elektra, Eric, Tania

* Services

* debug connectivity problems with local services (Hiure) 2 router connected by wifi and both cable, interest most BATMAN (level2), 

* Integration w/ local services and content (LokaLR and beyond)

Hiure: Looping issue investigation. Sanketh found solution? https://www.open-mesh.org/projects/batman-adv/wiki/Bridge-loop-avoidance

Is a new version needed where this is included? What work is entailed?

Elektra: Potential easy Fix. Shellscript to execute. LM system doesn't currently enable this. Workaround: Add the line "batctl bl 1" to /etc/rc.local

UCI: add commands to change /etc/config/batman, or manually edit this. 

Hiure: need to find this in LM. 

Elektra: To investigate and propose way forward and any support required. (Done. See 1.5 ;)

Cristina: network profile of our community, and to show where some comunity configuration can be written and applied: https://github.com/libremesh/network-profiles/blob/master/valsamoggia.ninux.org/vs-ninux-generic/root/etc/config/lime-community

## Next meeting dates

* 4th february Organizaion of LiMe http://libremesh.org/communication.html

* wednesday tech meeting 1 of February  (same week of the other meeting) or 8 of February (just near to the other) or 15 of february

## Hardware

"Legacy hardware that is actually in use in real world community networks"

What hardware are others already using.  What hardware CAN be used.

Where is the most up to date list? Should/how can this be organized, and shared on LM website/github, etc

  http://libremesh.org/docs/en_quick_starting_guide.html

**Compatible Hardware**

It is recommended that the router has at least 8 MB of flash memory and 64 MB of RAM. For routers with 4 MB flash memory or 32 MB of RAM, use the special firmware named -mini or compile one yourself excluding some heavy packages (e.g. opkg or the LuCI and lime-app web interfaces).

Not all the OpenWrt supported routers work with LibreMesh (at least, not with its default configuration), for a list of the tested hardware, see our hardware page. http://libremesh.org/docs/hardware/index.html

**Tested Hardware (from the list in the website)**

This is a list of devices that were tested by the community and reported as fully compatible with LibreMesh, it is by no means a complete list of the working devices.

* Xiaomi MiWiFi R3
* Xiaomi Mi WiFi R3G
* YouHua WR1200JS
* LibreRouter
* TP-Link WDR3500
* TP-Link WDR3600
* TP-Link WDR4300
* Dragino MS14
* Alix 2d2
* Ubiquiti UniFi AP
* Ubiquiti AirRouter
* Ubiquiti AirGateway
* Ubiquiti NanoBridge M2 and M5
* Ubiquiti NanoStation M2 XW and LoCo M2 XW
* Ubiquiti NanoStation M5 XW and LoCo M5 XW
* Ubiquiti PicoStation M2
* Ubiquiti Bullet M2 and M5
* Ubiquiti Rocket M2 and M5
* Buffalo WSR-1166DHP
* Flex mARC
* Western Digital My Net N600

EXAMPLE, now I'm using Cristina : Device Ubiquiti Litebeam M5

Firmware LiMe 2020.1 ExpansiveEmancipation ((no branch) rev. 6f1730e 20210612_1552)

openwrt-19.07 branch (git-21.044.30835-34e0d65) And we have the same firmware also on CPE 510 v2


**Updated Hardware List**

* G10h4ck:

- LibreRouter v1

- TP-Link TL-WDR3600

- TP-Link TL-WDR4300

- TP-Link TL-WDR4310

- TP-Link TL-WDR3500

* Troian - Nupef : TPLinks-  WDR 3500, 3600, 4300 Archer C7v5 Archer C50v4, CPE210v1-3, 

Equippment ported only to owrt22 - Archer C50 v5, Archer C6 (to test new LIME version)

* bologna appennino:  Ubiquity Litebeam M5 - TPlink CPE 510 (ath79)

https://antennine.noblogs.org/post/2021/12/15/tipi-di-antenne-che-usiamo/

* Hiure - Brasil / India : Cpe510/v1,v2,v3, Cpe210/v1,v2,v3 Cpe220, A7v5, tl-wdr3500, tl-wdr3600, tl-wdr4310, C60, C7, C5


Are we limited to the devices on the OpenWRT list? https://openwrt.org/toh/start

How are people porting new devices?

Big changes w/ new OpenWRT version.  Sometimes previous LM versions on OpenWRT 18 worked, now with v.19, things break.

How do we define the process of using more hardware, including hardware not on OpenWRT listhttps://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/issues/.

Relevant?: 

https://communitynetworks.group/t/expanding-openwrt-libremesh-hardware-support/790/5

https://communitynetworks.group/t/openwrt-libremesh-image-building-learning-group/823


## QoS,using TC (traffic control)

what do yuo think about aplly QoS in a mesh network, how to know how much bandwith do you share with the others. can you set a distribution of this.
on AP and Client, but difficult in nodes of mesh, because that are running the mesh routing

Bologna: we collect the data by Prometheus + Graphana and show to the community, we have meeting to show with the others, 1 meeting closed with everyone inside the mesh network; ither 3 public meeting in a public place, and we have every season a public tech meeting. we started to do that meeting for show the privacy problem but at he end is usefull for the know the consumtion of bandwith
in my island we are 15 with a connction of 30Mbs down /10Mbs up

Elektra: traffic shaping to go on AP that clients are using. 
Is there a more centralized way to do this? 

Traffic Control Talk:
https://videos.apc.org/u/nicopace/m/traffic-control-on-openwrt-and-libremesh/

https://communitynetworks.group/t/traffic-control-on-openwrt-and-libremesh-second-round/888

Who else is doing this, or interested in this?  

Hiure:
Pirhana, in Brazil. Allow people to access by Voucher. PiHole - to block sites.  

## Support for OpenWrt 22.03
  
A the moment, about the support for OpenWrt 22.03, from Bologna/appennino we have in use a link done on Tplink CPE 510 v2.3

working to merge this https://github.com/libremesh/lime-packages/pull/959


Closing at 14:27 utc
Next tech meeting will be on Wednesday 15th February 2023
