---
outline: deep
---

# lime-config
The command `lime-config` configures LibreMesh on top of OpenWrt.

## lime-files
These files are merged from the low level `lime-defaults` to top level `lime-node` to produce the complete configuration in `lime-autogen`.

## Modules
Modules are configured in this order `hardware_detection`, `wireless`, `network`, `firewall`, `system`, `generic_config`.

### hardware_detection
Loads all packages starting with `lime-hwd-*`    
`lime-hwd-openwrt-wan` configures the OpenWrt wan port as WAN. If disabled, or the package is not installed, the wan port is configured as LAN.

### wireless
Scan the OpenWrt device to find existing radios.   
Produce the UCI configuration for each radio, loading configs from `lime-autogen` in the order: 
- `config lime 'wifi'` (wifi general options)
- `config lime '5ghz'` (band specific options)
- `config lime '2ghz'` (band specific options)
- `config radioN` (radio specific options)

### network

#### scan
Scan the OpenWrt device to find existing ethernet devices.    

#### general protocols
Configure all `general protocols` from `lime-autogen.network.protocols`

#### interface specific protocols
For each ethernet device if it is present a specific `config net` use it, else take the protocols list from the `general protocols`.    
Configures all protocols on the ethernet device.

The file `lime-defaults` provides default configuration for large list of protocols.     
Only the protocols for which the relative package `lime-proto-<proto-name>`is installed are configured. 
In the default configuration they are 
- `ieee80211s` included in the package `lime-system`
- `lan` included in the package `lime-system`
- `anygw` - provided by `lime-proto-anygw` 
- `babeld` - provided by `lime-proto-babeld` 
- `batadv` - provided by `lime-proto-batadv` 

### firewall
Provides a default configuration for: general settings, LAN zone, WAN zone.   
Refers to [OpenWrt firewall zones](https://openwrt.org/docs/guide-user/firewall/firewall_configuration#zones).

#### default
`default firewall configuration:    
`input: ACCEPT`   
`output: ACCEPT`   
`forward: ACCEPT`   

#### LAN zone
Provide default firewall configuration for the `LAN zone`, and referesh the list of lan interfaces:    

Example of autogenerated configuration in a dualband router with 4 lan/1 wan ethernet ports.
```
config zone
	option name 'lan'
	list network 'lan'
	list network 'lm_net_br_lan_anygw_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wlan0_mesh_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wlan0_mesh_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wlan1_mesh_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wlan1_mesh_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan1_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan1_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan2_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan2_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wan_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_wan_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan3_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan3_babeld_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan4_batadv_if'
	list network 'lm_net_lan4_babeld_if'
	option input 'ACCEPT'
	option output 'ACCEPT'
	option forward 'ACCEPT'
	option mtu_fix '1'
```
 
`mtu_fix: 1` - Enable maximum segment size (MSS) clamping also for LAN. Enabled by default only for WAN.   
`network: <list-of-lan-interfaces>` - List of interfaces inside the bridge `br-lan`
  LAN interfaces are determined before during the configuration of the network protocol `lan`


#### WAN zone
Keeps the OpenWrt's default settings.

```
config zone
	option name 'wan'
	list network 'wan'
	list network 'wan6'
	option input 'REJECT'
	option output 'ACCEPT'
	option forward 'REJECT'
	option masq '1'
	option mtu_fix '1'
```

### system
Set `hostname` and `root_password`

### generic_config
Reads and execute the sections `generic_uci_config`, `copy_asset` and `run_asset`. 
Apply custom UCI configuration or copy/execute shell scripts.
See the page [Generic Config](generic_config) for detailed options.


## Commit changes
Changes are committed by the command `lime-config` and written in `/etc/config/` files.  
::: tip  
Be sure to do not loose the connection to your device after the configuration.    
To apply the changes the **safest way** is to perform a `reboot` of the device.    
:::

### lime-apply
On most cases one can skip the reboot running the command `lime-apply` which calls the OpenWrt `reload_config`.  
Depending on the changed configurations a full restart of some services may be required, like `wireless`, `network` and `firewall`.    
```
lime-config; lime-apply; wifi; \
/etc/init.d/network restart; \
/etc/init.d/firewall restart
```
